---
title: "Hosting the website"
date: 2023-03-12T10:27:42Z
draft: false
---

# High-level introduction on how this site is hosted and why.

## Static files html and css

This is meant to be a static website, with HTML, CSS and a little bit of JS, so the ideal hosting for it would be a cloud provider Bucket, and to manage those files we used the GO framework called Hugo.

This website is meant more as a Cloud Infrastructure/ Architecture showcase than a Web developer. That's why I chose to manage the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files with Hugo, a tool written in GO, that converts markdown files into, HTML.

## Cloud provider

For cloud provider, I decided to go with AWS, even if it is a new to me, since this is a challenge, I decided to use a different technology to learn about it and expand my knowledge.

Moreover, I recognized the overwhelming demand for AWS over GCP, so I think it is a good idea to learn it.

Once you know one provider and how to work in the cloud, both work in similar ways but have their own quirks and special things about it. The transition has been alright so far.

### Dns and SSL
Currently, if you want a website, an SSL certificate is a must and using https over http.

For that, I used Amazon Route 53 to purchase my domain, attached a CDN, (to cache static files and increase the website loading speed) with CloudFront and an SSL certificate thanks to AWS certificate validator.

### Adding a visitor counter

I’ve created an API for the website that every time it gets reloaded it sends a request to a Lambda function written in python that in turn it updates, a Dynamodb table that stores the visitor number.

### Creating and deploying the cloud-resources.

All of the above mentioned resources have been deployed with terraform.
I've decided to work again with Terraform because is a Cloud-Agnostic tool, and that's why I haven't played with the exclusive AWS tools like Sam or CloudFormation.

That has allowed me to learn AWS faster and made it much easier to apply the previos GCP knowledge to aws.

### Next to do!

In the list of things to do, is creating a CI/CD pipeline, so it makes it easyer to deploy the website when I make changes, and add some tests for the API.

